Working with data often involves arrays or other types of collections. Typically you iterate through all items in a collection by using some form of a `for` loop. Vue.js supports `for` loops through a directive called `v-for`.

## Introducing v-for

`v-for` is a directive which behaves much like a `for ... of ...` loop in JavaScript. It will iterate through a collection, providing access to each item via the variable you declare.

The syntax for `v-for` is:

```html
v-for="itemName in collectionName"
```

You add the `v-for` declaration to the HTML element you wish to have repeated. If you were creating an unordered list (`ul`), you would **not** add `v-for` to the `ul` element, but rather the `li` element, since the `li` element is what will be repeated.

Once declared, the variable name you specify is available between the start and end tag. It will behave the same as any property.

## Example

Let's say we had an array of names in our data object:

```javascript
Vue.createApp({
    data() {
        return {
            names: ['Susan', 'Peter', 'Bill' ]
        }
    }
}).mount('demo');
```

If we wanted to display the items, we could use the following code:

```html
<ul id="demo">
    <li v-for="name in names">{{ name }}</div>
</ul>
```

This would display all names:

- Susan
- Peter
- Bill

## Keys and state

If the data is modified, Vue.js needs to be able to refresh the appropriate parts of the display. When working with a list, it's best to update the individual item rather than the entire list. To allow Vue.js to find an individual item, each item displayed should have a key. The key **does not** need to be part of the data; it can be generated by using the **index** of the array. You can obtain the index by updating the `v-for` declaration as shown below:

```html
<ul id="demo">
    <li v-for="(name, index) in names" :key="index">{{ name }}</div>
</ul>
```

`index` will be incremented for each item in the array. The `:key` directive stores the key for Vue.js, allowing it to update the individual item as changes occur.
